Here is what makes Level 1-meals an approved meal.  Do NOT consume these two items.

1)  NO Simple sugars 

2) NO Dairy products 


1) NO Simple sugars:

Carbohydrates (sugars) are a component of food that supplies energy through calories to the body. The energy value of digestible carbohydrates is four calories per gram. Along with proteins and fats, carbohydrates are one of the three macronutrients that your body needs.   We need all three to be healthy.

The two basic types of carbohydrates that we consume daily are Starches, called Complex carbohydrates (whole) and sugars, called Simple carbohydrates (refined).  Whole carbs are unprocessed and contain the fiber found naturally in the food, while refined carbs have been processed and had the natural fiber stripped out. 

Examples of whole carbs include vegetables, whole fruit, legumes, sweet potatoes and whole grains used for sustained energy. These foods are healthy.  Refined carbs include sugar-sweetened beverages, fruit juices, pastries, bread, white pasta, white rice and others causing major spikes in blood sugar levels, which leads to a crash that can trigger hunger and cravings for more simple carb foods.

This is the "blood sugar roller coaster" that many people are familiar with.

Only whole carbs for you on this journey. By whole, we mean single ingredient foods in their original form: not mixed or processed with preservatives.

Fuel Foods to eat that contain NO unhealthy Simple sugars: 

All Vegetables:
spinach
kale
carrots
broccoli
chard
ginger
sweet potatoes
red potatoes
squash

Whole fruits:
Berries 
blueberries
blackberries
raspberries
strawberries
cranberries
apples
bananas
grapefruits
grapes
pomegranate
cherries
avocados

Legumes:
beans
peas
lentils

Nuts: 
almonds
walnuts
cashews

Seeds:
chia 
pumpkin

Whole grains: choose grains that are truly whole
quinoa
brown rice
whole grain oats


2) NO Dairy products:

The definition of dairy includes foods produced from the milk of mammals, such as cows, sheep, goats.  Milk and any food products made from milk, such as cheese, cream, butter, milk yogurt, etc...(eggs are NOT dairy)
